---
layout: post
title:  "ENEL 300: Product"
date:   2022-04-12 18:02:46 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
The product my team and I came up with is an interactive solution that focuses on a specific ideal situation, which is that children with visual disabilities should be able to independently develop arithmetic skills and enhance their memory for simple addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, leading to higher self-esteem, more freedom with their learning, and better integration with their peers at school. To function, the AVR microcontroller accepts input from braille keys, perform a math operation, and compare the user’s answer with a calculated one. It indicates to the user if their answer is correct or not using a sound system.

Some changes we made to our initial idea was reducing the number of audio outputs as to not confuse the user, as they may forget which sound indicates what. We also decided to add a 7-segment display to make it easier for parents or teachers to help the child use the device or check their work. It is added with the tradeoff of eliminating negative numbers and floating-point numbers due to the limited number of AVR I/O pins. However, the current functionality allows students and parents to be less overwhelmed by the user interface and focus on grade-level arithmetic.

From this experience, I realized that the end-product is not always going to look like what I had envisioned it to be. Based on constraints, iterations, and new information, it is in the nature of the design process to continuously challenge and change my original idea. Because of this, I can build upon what I learned in the entrepreneurship aspect of this course in that I do have to plan everything before I begin designing my solution. I can use the knowledge I have currently to do my best to come up with a design, and the iterative process will take care of the details along the way. This translates to how I spend my time as an engineering student. I should not be too worried about how my personal projects will turn out to be, but rather take every opportunity I have to build, break or just tinker around products. Hackathons, designathons, product development challenges are all opportunities for me to get used to building things and resolving challenges in the field.

My personal experience tells me that it is difficult to fully commit certain engineering concepts or knowledge to memory until I’ve actually used it. One project requiring deep knowledge of microcontrollers beats an entire semester burying your face in tutorials and textbooks. It’s also a much more fun way to learn. Approaching problems from different angles and coming up with solutions quick is also a key skill. This isn’t something that I was born with. It is a muscle I have to train, a skill that has to be honed and harnessed.
Everyone builds, thinks and solves in different ways and only through practice and trial and error will I find the most optimal method for myself to do so. Best thing about these activities is that I can fail and learn from them without any consequences. The product I made in ENEL 300 is a stepping-stone for me to make the most of these kinds of activities. 
