---
layout: post
title:  "ENEL 300: Design Process"
date:   2022-04-12 18:02:46 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
In ENEL 300, I learned a lot about professional engineering skills regarding design, testing, and product development. I came in expecting to gain skills like the ones I developed in ENGG 200, the previous Professional Development and Design course, such as technical writing and communication. While I did improve upon those skills in this course, I also gained insight into a popular practice and workflow used in industry: Agile Development.

I worked with my team to complete 4 quick sprints to iterate through prototypes of our product, which we named “Vocal Calculator.” It is aimed towards children with visual disabilities for them to practice mental math in the 4 basic arithmetic operations. The hardest aspect of this process was responding to change. Since we integrated testing with development by testing our prototypes after each sprint, we discovered quickly what needed to be fixed based on both the results of testing and feedback from others. As such, I had to take more responsibility for planning and managing my own work to meet the ever-changing requirements of the project. This also called for working as part of a close-knit, collaborative development team that collectively takes responsibility for the work produced as a team. Because of this, I needed to understand and actively participate in the implementation and continuous improvement of the Agile design process. However, this challenge proved to be rewarding, as I could recycle good ideas quickly and remove bad ideas. The retrospectives empowered me to provide input on what went well, what did not, and plans for the next iteration. I was able to adapt all the time by continuously planning goals, evaluating my work, and occasionally failing and learning from those failures. The biggest takeaway from this course would be that I can start designing before I have all the answers to my questions. Afterwards, I can be creative in finding solutions to the obstacles that I encounter. From participating in the Agile design process, I learned how to embrace change and that resiliency is key to being adaptive. Every iteration posed new challenges but also moved my team and I towards our goals. I look forward to putting these skills to use in a future team-based experience.

