---
layout: post
title:  "ENEL 300: Teamwork"
date:   2022-04-12 18:02:46 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
Undoubtedly, teamwork was a big contributor to my success in ENEL 300. A fundamental component of the Agile design process, my team members leveraged our different strengths to make sure our goals were met and even exceeded. As the assigned Project Manager for our team, I made sure teamwork was fostered in the group by giving us some time to get to know each other. I found that the more we understood each other’s tendencies, working styles, and skillsets, the better collaboration will be. For example, there were people in my group who worked with 3D models as part of her hobbies, and it was natural to suggest that she may oversee the 3D-printing aspect of our project. What I found to be challenging in this role was to create an environment that promotes sharing of ideas. Since we started the semester online, I often had to ask directly about what my team members thought. However, this slowly reduced as we became more comfortable with each other and moved to in-person learning. The most rewarding experience, however, was the relationship we built outside the project. I made a point to talk with my team members outside of class, whether it be about a lab or to get ice cream. I found that many of my team members expressed themselves better outside the pressure of being in a classroom and the best ideas regarding our project came from these informal discussions. My biggest takeaway regarding teamwork in ENEL 300 is that it takes time and patience to build a foundation upon which collaboration and teamwork can flourish, but once that foundation is built, productivity and team satisfaction will increase.