---
layout: post
title:  "ENEL 343"
date:   2022-04-10 18:02:46 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
After ENGG 225, I was looking forward to the course's continuation in circuit theory. I wanted to study advanced circuit analysis methods, how to use my understanding of Laplace and Fourier from MATH 375, and wished to hone my analytical and creative thinking abilities when it comes to determining how to solve the parameters in a new system. As the course continued, I found that its goals were aligned with and complemented my own. For example, in the lab where we created an amplifier by calculating voltage divider values with the potentiometer, I realized how readily my theoretical knowledge could be translated into something audible. As a result, the course's objectives supplemented my own goals with how I wanted to learn advanced methods of circuit analysis and apply them to practical and new situations.

ENEL 343 was both a practice and lab-based course. It was important to know how to extrapolate different values from a graph or calculate values of voltage at infinity. However, it is just as important to use these skills to design real-life systems. As a student of this course, I implemented both approaches to learning and really appreciated the fruits of my learning when I designed and implemented the audio amplifier to be used in the ENEL 300 project. My experience was further enhanced by incorporating knowledge from ENCM 369, a computer architecture course where I learned embedded programming. By combining knowledge from the two courses, I was able to program distinct tunes that the speaker played and that could be attributed to common nursery rhymes. By doing so, I was able to characterize my project by targeting it towards children. Upon reflection, this has increased my aptitude as an electrical engineering student as I can design a product after thinking of a goal, instead of molding my goals based on what I am able to do. This is something I felt I could not do before and has increased my confidence to try to implement more ambitious ideas.

From this experience, I learned that a solid foundation in theoretical concepts leads to better design. It is easy for me to look at implemented designs of something and adapt a solution based on that. However, there will be many constraints when it comes to designing, whether they may be natural constraints such as time and raw materials or artificial constraints, such as budget, all of which were presented in the ENEL 343 labs. Because of this, I realized it is better to understand the concepts behind other designs and be able to replicate them from scratch or change them entirely to fit in specific constraints. The labs we did in ENEL 343 demonstrated this as I was able to design different systems using different components based on what my lab group had in our kits at the moment. This taught me that when working on engineering projects, such as the semester project in ENEL 300, it is best to outline a design within constraints before looking at implemented solutions as to clearly grasp what can be done by the team reasonably. By doing this, I was also able to improve my communication skills as I could effectively describe my thought process behind the ENEL 343 lab designs to a TA and justify my design choices to them, which is essential to be able to do in the engineering industry as I will work with people from different backgrounds.

Overall, this course helped me achieve more than what I hoped to. Not only did I learn advanced methods of circuit analysis, but there was more of a hands-on component than I expected. I enjoyed using electrical components I have never used before, such as the potentiometer and speaker. As trivial as it may sound, it made me realize that I can connect many things to a circuit as long as I have a way for current to flow through it and I supply the correct voltage and current. For the future, I learned that many problems are not with the equipment but with the initial design. This goes back to my comment about having a good foundation in theoretical concepts, as that is what leads to efficient designs. On the flipside, I learned it is best not to reinvent the wheel and it is also effective to use solutions that have already been tested, given that I understand the theory behind it and how it fits into my situation. From ENEL 343, I gained a better understanding of the design process, how to approach and test engineering problems, as well as how to use basic bench tools that can be applied in any electrical engineering context.
